Week 1 Homework!

Reading Questions- Monday


    What is your favorite color?
        green

    How old are you in seconds? (If you did this with only a calculator how would you do it?)
        60 * 60 * 24 * 365 * 31 = 977616000 seconds

    What is a String?
        combination of characters as in a word or a  sentence

    What’s the difference between single and double-quoted strings?

        nothing, except if use of quotes is necessary more than once in a single string, the second pair have to be escaped or use the alternate form.

    How do you use a quote mark inside of a string? (escaping characters)

        \"

    What is a variable?

        is an object in which you can store data such as strings numbers or methods.


    How do you put a variable inside a string? (interpolation or concatenation)

        use the plus sign between strings
        EXAMPLE:
        verb = "is"
        "my string " + verb + " awesome!"


    What does the to_s or the to_i method do and why do we need them? (type casting)

        changes the variable to a string (s) or an integer (i). Important when concatenating multiple types of data.

Evens questions:

    How do you call a method on a variable?

         use variable + "." + Method

    How do you generate a random number between 1 and 20?

        rand(20)

    How do you define a new method?

        def [method name] [variable]
            [arguement] [parameter]
        end


    How do you define a new method that takes 2 parameters?

        def [method name]
            [arguement] [par 1] [par 2]
        end

    What is a method?

        A method performs a function on a local variable

    What happens if you specify that it needs 2 parameters but you only give it 1? (arity)

        Nothing it should result in an error


    If you use a variable outside a function can it be used inside?

        yes, but the value will be different or as defined within the function.

    If you assign a new value inside the function, what is the value of the variable after the function? (overwriting vs shadowing)

        It is not overwritten. the value only exists while the funtion is operating. Afterwards, the value will return to the global value


    If you don’t explicitly return a value from a function, what is returned? (implicit return)

        The function will still return the requested answer.


Reading questions- Tuesday

1.) Recursion is a method which calls itself
2.) It is a small portion of the problem
3.) psuedo code to sort recursively- array of 3 numbers
      if array in order, end program
      else
      if element 1 > element 2, then swap places
        else go to next element
          if element 2 > 3, then swamp places
            else end

Reading questions- Wednesday

1.) What is a REPL? Is irb a REPL, why or why not?

read-eval-print loop (REPL). irb (Interactive Ruby) is a REPL because it does just this.  Commands are entered and returned very simply which makes it a good platform for learning and testing.

2.) Why is the PickAxe book called PickAxe?

Cause ther's a pick ax on the cover

Evens:

1.) How do we add methods to existing classes or modules (Reopening)

2.) Why would we want to reopen a class or a module?
3.) What is the first method called when you instanciate an object? (Constructor)
4.) Could you call initialize or redefine new? Why would you or wouldn’t you do that?
5.) What does the private keyword do?

Odds:

1.) What is the difference between a Proc and a method?
        Proc is given is a single line as opposed to in a block form (covering multiple lines)
2.) Could you have defined maybe_do in some way other than using a Proc?
3.) How do you create a method that accepts a block as an argument?
4.) When you’ve passed a block into a method, how do you call it in the method? (Yield)
5.) Try profiling some of your code using the profile method in the book. Show me the output of the profile in a comment above the code. (Computers are fast, you may need to use sleep or a large number of iterations to make a meaninful number. Start with 10000.times do)

